
Errata for PDF Reference, fourth edition
(as published online at the partners.adobe.com web site on 8/28/2003)
-----------------

Copyright (c) 2004 Adobe Systems Incorporated. All rights reserved.
Last modified: 29 October 2004

General
-------

Front Matter
------------

Chapter 1
---------

Pages 6 - 7, Section 1.4, append two new sentences to the first
bulleted item, so that it reads as follows in its entirety:

o  Authors of software that accepts input in the form of the
   Portable Document Format must make reasonable efforts to ensure
   that the software they create respects the access permissions and
   permissions controls listed in Table 3.20 of this specification, to
   the extent that they are used in any particular document. These
   access permissions express the rights that the document's author
   has granted to users of the document. It is the responsibility of
   Portable Document Format consuming software to respect the author's
   intent.

Then remove the third bulleted item, which reads:

 o Accessing the document in ways not permitted by the document's
   access permissions is a violation of the document author's
   copyright.


Chapter 2
---------

Chapter 3
---------

Page 73, Table 3.13, File trailer dictionary, /ID entry: Change
"Optional" to "Optional, but strongly recommended". Append this
sentence: "Although this entry is optional, its absence might prevent
this file from functioning in some workflows that depend on files
being uniquely identified."

Add the following entry:

/XRefStm   integer   (Optional; meaningful only in an update section of a
hybrid-reference file; PDF 1.5) Offset of cross-reference stream (see
"Compatibility with PDF 1.4" on page 85).

Page 83, in the itemization of restrictions on cross-reference
streams, add a reference to the following implementation note: The
only filter that Acrobat 6 supports for cross-reference streams is
/FlateDecode. Note that Example 3.11 on page 89 shows a
cross-reference stream that specifies a /ASCIIHexDecode filter. This
is for the purpose of elucidating the cross-reference data format;
however, the example as written would be unacceptable to Acrobat 6.

Pages 89-90, Example 3.11, make the following corrections:

Change:
  /Type /XRefStm
  /Index [2 9]   % This stream contains entries for objects 2 through 10
to:
  /Type /XRef
  /Index [2 10]   % This stream contains entries for objects 2 through 11
  /Size 100

Change:
  /Filter /ASCIIHexDecode
to:
  /Filter /ASCIIHexDecode   % See implementation note XX
[referring to the implementation note for page 83, above]

Change:
  02 0002 07   % Entry for object 9 (in object stream 2, index 7)
  01 1323 0    % Entry for object 10 (0x1323 = 4899)
to: 
  02 0002 07   % Entry for object 10 (in object stream 2, index 7)
  01 1323 0    % Entry for object 11 (0x1323 = 4899)

Pages 95-103, Section 3.5.2: Throughout this section, all algorithms
and permission bits that are labeled "Revision 3" should be labeled
"Revision 3 or greater".

Page 103, Section 3.5.3, second paragraph: Change the citation for
PKCS#7 to refer to RFC 2315, listed in the Bibliography.

Page 123, Figure 3.6: The node that is the parent of Page 3 and Page 4
should be labeled "Pages", not "Page".

Page 158, Table 3.43, Subtype entry, change to:

Subtype   integer   (Optional) The embedded file's type. This is
encoded as an integer according to Mac OS conventions: a 4-character
ASCII text literal converted to a 32-bit integer, high-order byte
first. For instance, the file type 'CARO' is represented as the
hexadecimal integer 4341524F, which is the decimal integer 1128354383.

Creator   integer   (Optional) The embedded file's creator signature,
encoded the same as for Subtype.


Chapter 4
---------

Page 220, Lab Color Spaces, change "In a this type of space" to "In
this type of space".

Page 224, paragraph after bullets, change "As of version 1.4" to "As
of version 1.5".

Page 230, Rendering Intents, second paragraph, add the following to
the methods for specifying rendering intent: "the /RI entry in a
graphics state parameter dictionary (see Section 4.3.4)".


Chapter 5
---------

Chapter 6
---------

Chapter 7
---------

Chapter 8
---------

Page 561, Note in /Border entry, and page 566, Note below table:
Change this to an implementation note (moved to appendix H and
referenced from preceding text). Change it to state that Acrobat 3 and
4 support border style dictionaries only for widget annotations;
Acrobat 5 supports them for all types except link annotations; Acrobat
6 and later support them for link annotations as well.

Page 570, Table 8.16: Annotation type /Polyline should be spelled
/PolyLine.

Page 581, Table 8.25, /Subtype entry: /Polyline should be spelled
/PolyLine. In the remainder of this table, instances of "Polyline" and
"Polygon" that are bold-face should instead be normal text and
lowercase, signifying that they are not keywords but just generic
terms.

Page 632, Table 8.68, RichText flag: Bit position should be 26, not
28.

Page 665, PKCS#7 Signatures, change the descriptions of
adbe.pkcs7.detached and adbe.pkcs7.sha1 to the following:

adbe.pkcs7.detached: The value of Contents is a DER-encoded PKCS#7
binary data object containing the signature. No data is encapsulated
in the PKCS#7 signed-data field.

adbe.pkcs7.sha1: The value of Contents is a DER-encoded PKCS#7 binary
data object containing the signature. The SHA1 digest of the byte
range is encapsulated in the PKCS#7 signed-data field with ContentInfo
of type "data".

Page 668, Table 8.96, /Document entry: Append the following note:

Any usage right that allows the document to be modified implicitly
enables /FullSave. This includes /FillIn, /Import, and /SpawnTemplate
for the /Form entry, and /Create, /Delete, /Modify, and /Import for
the /Annots entry.

Page 668, Table 8.96, /Form entry: Append an additional defined value:

/FillIn   Allows the user to save a document on which form fill-in has
been done.


Chapter 9
---------

Chapter 10
----------

Page 731, Section 10.6.3, bottom, append the following:

Content items may not be nested within other content items. The
hierarchical relationship among structure elements is represented
entirely by the structure tree, not by nesting of the associated
content items. This gives rise to the following restrictions:

* A marked-content sequence delimiting a structure content item may
not have another marked-content sequence for a content item nested
within it (though non-structural marked content is allowed).

* A structure content item may not invoke (with the Do operator) an
XObject that is itself a structure content item.

Appendix A
----------

Appendix B
----------

Appendix C
----------

Appendix D
----------

Appendix E
----------

Appendix F
----------

Appendix G
----------

Appendix H
----------

Appendix I
----------

Page 984, Section I.2.6: Remove /Rect from the list of form field
entries to be included in the digest.


Bibliography
------------

Page 1003, near top: Update the ICC Specification citation to the one
that is appropriate for PDF 1.5, as follows --

Specification ICC.1:2001-12, File Format for Color Profiles

Page 1004, insert the following citation in the list of IETF RFCs:

RFC 2315, PKCS #7: Cryptographic Message Syntax, Version 1.5


Index
-----
